In both instances the price movements had some basis in changing market fundamentals: the shortage of light sweet crudes in 2008 and incipient oversupply thanks to shale in 2014. 

Oil prices are at a suitable level for OPEC members and the group sees no shortage in supply, the United Arab Emirates Energy Minister Suhail bin Mohammed al-Mazroui was quoted as saying on Tuesday. 

The International Energy Agency’s chief economist Fatih Birol said on Tuesday the rise of Islamic State presented a major challenge for the investment necessary to prevent an oil shortage in the next decade.

An oil supply shortage may be the last thing on investors’ minds right now, but the ability of OPEC producers to cope with an unexpected surge in demand is diminishing fast, analysts and forecasters say. 

Others signs also point to a shortage of tanks.

Ross has been among the more bullish forecasters for much of this year, warning about the thin reserve of spare production capacity that leaves the world vulnerable to unexpected supply squeezes as well as the risk of a future shortage. 

Falling oil prices caused a liquidity shortage at Iraq’s listed banks, reducing their overall profit before tax 44 percent to 74 billion dinars ($68 million) in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to a report by Rabee Securities in Baghdad. 

Sources familiar with the matter say Riyadh does not want prices to fall again because of fiscal pressures at home and as it fears that a drop in oil investment around the world could lead to acute shortages and price spikes. 

Among industrial metals, zinc marched on Thursday to the highest in nearly a year, fueled by expectations of tight markets and potential shortages.

This year, oil prices initially hit 12-year lows of around $26-$27 a barrel. 

They made a strong recovery during spring, rising to above $50 on unexpected supply shortages in Canada to Nigeria and Libya.

Oil executives and the International Energy Agency have  warned that a sharp drop in global investment in oil and gas would result in a supply shortage by the end of the decade. 

That means less cash income for the isolated South American economy, deepening a recession that has left many citizens skipping meals amid food shortages and soaring inflation. 

The setback comes as PDVSA deals with a shortage of gasoline that generated queues at service stations in some cities in the country last week, also creating a backlog of tankers bringing imports and others waiting to load for exports.

Traders eyed news from Canada, where two oil sands producers have cut production due to a shortage of synthetic crude following a plant fire. 

Meanwhile on Monday the CEO of Saudi Aramco Amin Nasser told a conference in Istanbul he thought the world was headed for a global supply shortage. 

U.S. gasoline futures RBc1 pared gains and ended a shade firmer after hitting their strongest levels in four months and the highest in three years for this time of year as traders booked profits and worries over supply shortages have already been priced in, market participants said. 

U.S. gasoline futures RBc1 have rallied roughly 26 percent from the previous week to a two-year high above $2 a gallon, buoyed by fears of a fuel shortage days ahead of the Labor Day weekend that typically brings a surge in driving.

